Update on-boarding issue template (#4205) (#4968)
DataBiosphere/azul: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/onboarding.md

# Onboarding

This ticket should be created by the hiring supervisor to initiate the process
of onboarding an employee to team Boardwalk. The action items in this ticket
will be completed by the supervisor, other team members, and the onboarded

> employee. Your next step is to assign this ticket to yourself.

Reviewer: -

Reviewer: There is nothing in the fixup that addresses this. Please don't thumb-up things that you don't actually address.

"you" should refer exclusively to the person currently assigned.

- [ ] Assigned this ticket to the onboarded employee

## Onboarded employee actions

- [ ] Your UCSC account email: [ENTER-EMAIL-HERE]
- [ ] Your GitHub account username: [ENTER-USERNAME-HERE]
- [ ] Read [Azul README.md](..)
- [ ] Read [Contributing Guidelines](../blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.rst)
- [ ] Read [AWS Credential Configuration](https://giwiki.gi.ucsc.edu/index.php/Overview_of_Getting_and_Using_an_AWS_IAM_Account)
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Security and Management Refresher](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Security Awareness for New Hires](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Management for New Hires](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the [dbGaP Code of Conduct](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/HKXNYD7) quiz
- [ ] Completed the [NIH Security Best Practices for (CAD) Subject to NIH (GDS) Policy](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/FG3C63T) quiz

> - [ ] Digitally signed the [NIH GDS Policy](https://giwiki.gi.ucsc.edu/images/1/1b/NIH_GDS_Policy.pdf) document and gave it to your project manager

Author: Confirm with Trevor that this list of training makes a person eligible to access Anvil snapshots.

Author: https://ucsc-gi.slack.com/archives/C02B4S0V6GH/p1680108693924329

Ben Vizzier:
> We talked about this a bit in the Boardwalk Standup today.  I suggest that Daniel start with what he has with the understanding that we are reviewing it, and it is likely to change moderately soon.

Nneka:
> i intend to circle back on this as i work on Data Access policy and ToS but will be after both audit

- [ ] Installed [git-secrets](..#211-git-secrets)
- [ ] Completed steps for [setting up a VPN client](..#911-setting-up-a-vpn-client) for `dev.gitlab` and `anvildev.gitlab`

> - [ ] Sent a request email to the organization administrator (cc: hiring supervisor) asking them to:

Reviewer: cc system admin

    - Create for you an AWS IAM user account
    - Assign the `developer` role in the dev account(s) to the AWS IAM user account

>     - Assign the `developer` role to your GitHub user account

Reviewer: -

>     - Add your UCSC account to the `firecloud-cgl` group in Terra

Reviewer: -

- [ ] Assigned this ticket to the hiring supervisor

## Hiring supervisor actions

- [ ] Approved (by replying to) the request email sent by the onboarded employee to the organization administrator

> - [ ] Assigned this ticket to the organization administrator

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Monitor request status
- [ ] Assigned this ticket to the onboarded employee
```

> ## Organization administrator actions

Author: remove this section

- [ ] Verified the authenticity of the approval
- [ ] Verified the GitHub user account is associated with the onboarded employee's UCSC account email
- [ ] Created an IAM user account for the onboarded employee

> - [ ] Added the `developer` role to the onboarded employee's IAM user account

Reviewer: Why do we need an email if we list the specific items here?

Author: The onboarded employee's email address is used elsewhere in the checklist, example:
> [ ] Verified the GitHub user account is associated with the onboarded employee's UCSC account email

- [ ] Added the onboarded employee's UCSC account to the `platform-hca-dev` Google project and assigned the `developer` role
- [ ] Added the onboarded employee's UCSC account to the `platform-anvil-dev` Google project and assigned the `developer` role
- [ ] Added the onboarded employee's Google Workspace account to the `platform-hca-dev` Google project and assigned `Project Editor` permissions
- [ ] Added the onboarded employee's Google Workspace account to the `platform-anvil-dev` Google project and assigned `Project Editor` permissions
- [ ] Assigned this ticket to the project manager

## Project manager actions

- [ ] Added the onboarded employee to the [UCSC-CGL Slack](https://ucsc-cgl.slack.com)
- [ ] Assigned this ticket to the system administrator

## System administrator actions

- [ ] Gave the onboarded employee push access to the Azul Repository on [#team-boardwalk](https://ucsc-cgl.slack.com/archives/C705Y6G9Z)
- [ ] Gave the onboarded developer access to development CI/CD systems on [#team-boardwalk](https://ucsc-cgl.slack.com/archives/C705Y6G9Z)
- [ ] Gave the onboarded employee [GCP Credentials](https://console.cloud.google.com/)

> - [ ] Added the onboarded employee's Google Workspace account to the `azul-dev` group in Terra

Author: Add checkbox for `azul-anvil-dev`
Add checkbox for `azul-anvil-prod` (requires managed access certification)

# Onboarding

This ticket should be created by a hiring supervisor in order to initiate the

> process of onboarding a developer to team Boardwalk. The action items in this

Reviewer: This is not just for onboarding developers.

# Onboarding

> This ticket should be created by a hiring supervisor to initiate the process of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ticket should be created by the hiring supervisor to initiate the process of
```

there is only ever one hiring supervisor.

> onboarding a employee/contractor to team Boardwalk. The action items in this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
onboarding an employee/contractor to team Boardwalk. The action items in this
```

> ticket will be completed by you, existing team members, and the onboarded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ticket will be completed by the supervisor, other team members, and the onboarded
```

employee/contractor. Your next step is to assign this ticket to yourself.

If you are assigned this ticket, perform the checklist items in order. Remove
your assignment only after assigning this ticket to the next in line or the
ticket checklist is completed. At that time, put the ticket back in triage.

## Hiring Supervisor 

- [ ] Onboarded employee/contractor's name: [ENTER-NAME-HERE]

> - [ ] Approved the HR request for ITS to create an UCSC account for the onboarded employee <sub>(or the person being onboarded is not an employee)</sub>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Approved the HR request for ITS to create a UCSC account for the onboarded employee <sub>(or the person being onboarded is not an employee)</sub>
```

Because U is pronounced _you_ which starts with a consonant **sound**.

https://www.britannica.com/dictionary/eb/qa/how-do-you-know-whether-to-use-a-or-an

> - [ ] Instructed the onboarded employee/contractor to create a new GitHub account using the username `{ucsc_account_name}-ucsc` and connected to their UCSC account<sup>1</sup> email address. The new account will be used exclusively for work on the team and should be created even if they already have another account.

Reviewer: Only applicable to UCSC employees. Contractors can continue to use their existing GH account.

# Onboarding

By creating this ticket, you are requesting to be onboarded as a developer on
team Boardwalk. The action items in this ticket will be carried out by you and

> existing team members. Your next step is to assign this ticket to yourself.

Reviewer 2: I tried rewriting it slightly to avoid the [passive voice misuse flag](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/passive-voice/) in grammarly.
```suggestion
By creating this ticket, you are requesting developer onboarding to
team Boardwalk. You and existing team members will carry out the
actions in this ticket. Your next step is to assign this ticket to yourself.
```

If you are assigned this ticket, perform the checklist items in order. Remove
your assignment only after you have assigned the ticket to the next in line, or

> the ticket has been completed. At that time, put the ticket back to triage.

Reviewer 2: Same here.
```suggestion
If you are assigned this ticket, perform the checklist items in order. Remove
your assignment only after assigning the ticket to the next in line or the ticket
is complete. At that time, put the ticket back in triage.
```

## Onboarded developer actions

> - [ ] Received your UCSC account from ITS

Reviewer 2: I think this might be implied. The onboarded user should have created their GitHub account with their UCSC email in order to be added to the DB org, after which they are eligible for assignment of this ticket (non members can't be assigned). We may need to require it in the first paragraph of the template, and for them to subsequently be added as triagers or which ever tier has the sufficient permissions in the org to be able for assignment.

- [ ] Read [Azul README.md](..)
- [ ] Read [Contributing Guidelines](../blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.rst)
- [ ] Read [AWS Credential Configuration](https://giwiki.gi.ucsc.edu/index.php/Overview_of_Getting_and_Using_an_AWS_IAM_Account)
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Security and Management Refresher](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Security Awareness for New Hires](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Management for New Hires](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the [dbGaP Code of Conduct](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/HKXNYD7) quiz
- [ ] Completed the [NIH Security Best Practices for (CAD) Subject to NIH (GDS) Policy](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/FG3C63T) quiz
- [ ] Digitally signed the [NIH GDS Policy](https://giwiki.gi.ucsc.edu/images/1/1b/NIH_GDS_Policy.pdf) document and gave it to your project manager

> - [ ] Created a GitHub account with your UCSC account email address

Reviewer 2: Related to the above https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/pull/4968#discussion_r1106504478.

    - Creation of an AWS IAM user account
    - Assign the `developer` role to the AWS IAM user account
    - Assign the `developer` role to your GitHub user account
    - Add your UCSC account to the `firecloud-cgl` group in Terra
- [ ] Assigned ticket to the hiring supervisor

## Hiring supervisor actions

- [ ] Approved (by replying to) the request email sent by the onboarded developer to the organization administrator
- [ ] Assigned ticket to the organization administrator

## Organization administrator actions

- [ ] Verified the authenticity of the approval
- [ ] Verified the GitHub user account is associated with the onboarded developer's UCSC account email
- [ ] Created an IAM user account for the onboarded developer
- [ ] Added the `developer` role to the onboarded developer' IAM user account
- [ ] Added the `developer` role to the onboarded developer's GitHub user account
- [ ] Added the onboarded developer's UCSC account to the `firecloud-cgl` group in Terra
- [ ] Assigned ticket to the onboarded developer

## Onboarded developer actions

- [ ] Sent a request email to the system administrator (cc: hiring supervisor) asking for:

>     - Creation of a GitLab user account
>     - Assign the `developer` role to the account

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Creation of a GitLab user account
- [ ] Assign the `developer` role to the account
```

Author: The nested bulleted list for these items was intentional. It follows a checklist item to email the organization administrator and lists what should be requested (not performed at that time). There are correlating checklist items in the `Organization administrator actions` section for the requested actions.

# Onboarding

This ticket should be created by the hiring supervisor to initiate the process
of onboarding an employee to team Boardwalk. The action items in this ticket
will be completed by the supervisor, other team members, and the onboarded

> employee. Your next step is to assign this ticket to yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
employee. The ticket should first be assigned to the hiring supervisor.
```

- [ ] Read [Azul README.md](..)
- [ ] Read [Contributing Guidelines](../blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.rst)
- [ ] Read [AWS Credential Configuration](https://giwiki.gi.ucsc.edu/index.php/Overview_of_Getting_and_Using_an_AWS_IAM_Account)
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Security and Management Refresher](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Security Awareness for New Hires](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the NIH [Information Management for New Hires](https://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx) training courses
- [ ] Completed the [dbGaP Code of Conduct](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/HKXNYD7) quiz
- [ ] Completed the [NIH Security Best Practices for (CAD) Subject to NIH (GDS) Policy](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/FG3C63T) quiz
- [ ] Digitally signed the [NIH GDS Policy](https://giwiki.gi.ucsc.edu/images/1/1b/NIH_GDS_Policy.pdf) document and gave it to the project manager
- [ ] Installed [git-secrets](..#211-git-secrets)
- [ ] Completed steps for [setting up a VPN client](..#911-setting-up-a-vpn-client) for `dev.gitlab` and `anvildev.gitlab`

> - [ ] Sent a request email to the organization administrator (cc: hiring supervisor & system administrator) asking them to:

Reviewer 2: Be sure to include similar change in offboarding template.

# Onboarding

> By creating this ticket, you are requesting developer onboarding to team 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By creating this ticket, you are requesting to be on-boarded to team 
```

The ticket should be created by the supervisor of the employee. Please reword accordingly. Any initial actions should be reflected in the checklist rather then as prose preceding the checklist.

Additionally, I want to require that employees create GitHub accounts exclusively for use for work, and that their GitHub account names are `{ucsc_account_name}-ucsc`. Please work that in as well. Account for the case that an employee already has such an account.
